[Music]
Hi listeners and welcome back to No
Priors. Today we're joined by Matthew
Prince, the co-founder and CEO of
Juggernaut Cloudflare, a company that
quietly underpins a massive chunk of the
internet. From stopping the largest
cyber attacks to moving more compute to
the edge, Cloudflare sits at the
intersection of infrastructure,
security, and the future of the web. We
talked to Matthew about the economics of
AI for publishers, how quickly chat is
replacing search, the evolving
architecture of the web, what's broken
about how it's funded today, and what he
wants to force Google to do. Matthew,
thanks so much for being here.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> So, I I want to get like right into the
um juicy topics, but make sure our
listeners understand like the scale and
like current role of Cloudflare first.
So, um correct me if I'm wrong in any of
this. $66 billion market cap company
today. Um about 1.8 billion in trailing
revenue and then like the biggest CDN by
far with a bunch of different products
now in security in particular. Like what
else should our audience understand
about the role Cloudflare plays?
>> Not to nitpick on on one thing, but
we've never really thought of ourselves
as a CDN. We started out very much as a
security company. The whole thesis was
could you put a firewall in the cloud?
Um we saw that servers were going to the
cloud. We saw the software was going to
the cloud. It seemed inevitable to us
that the networking equipment would go
to the cloud and the big objection that
everyone had was you were going to slow
things down and so we worked very hard
to figure out how could we not slow
anything down and the goal was just to
get back to parody. Turned out we were a
little too good at our jobs and
everything got a lot faster and so so
yes we've ended up competing in the CDN
space. But really what Cloudflare is is
we're what the network should have been,
what the internet should have been had
we known in the '60s, '7s, '8s, how
important it was going to be. So how can
we make it faster, more reliable, more
secure, more efficient, more private,
and and that fundamentally is what we're
working on every day at at Cloudflare.
>> Uh how long has it been since you guys
started the company?
>> We launched in uh September of 2010, so
we'll be coming up on our 15th uh year
in in September of this year.
>> Amazing. And I I don't think there's a
way to ask this question without like
somewhat trivializing the journey, but
like how did you become so dominant?
>> I don't know. I I mean I think we just
focused on
how did we do the right thing for our
customers? How do we solve the problems
that were there and you know at some
level the story of Cloudflare is that we
have been customer zero along the entire
journey. So every, you know, thing that
started from could we take a firewall,
put it in the cloud, how would we get
the data to populate that firewall, we
had to have a free service. Once we had
a free service, all of a sudden we had
to be able to figure out how to scale um
you know, enormously across, you know,
millions of customers uh in in an
efficient way. That meant that we had a
whole bunch of, you know, weird stuff
that was using us. We got attacked by
every which direction. We had to build a
public policy team in order to deal with
those issues. We had to build our own
security. We like someone almost hacked
or stole our domain at some point as a
way of hacking into us. So the next
thing you know we built our own registar
and so to some extent Cloudflare has
been about you know start with a
relatively simple idea um make it as
broadly available as possible and then
solve all the problems that become sort
of inherent once you've done that.
>> Now you're in the position that I
believe you've described as like the
internet's traffic cop. I think a lot of
people feel with the um sucking sound of
attention toward AI assistance that the
shape of the internet is changing. Um
what is your before we go to like point
of view on what to do, what is your
prediction for what's happening?
>> So no matter what um the the dominant
kind of value creation model of the last
30 years of the web has been search.
Search drove everything. It drove uh all
of what you did online. Entire
industries grew up around that. And the
real three ways that you could derive
value on the web in the past were you
either sold a thing, whether that was a
subscription or a product or something
else. you sold ads against some content
or and and I didn't say the business
model but I said the value creation
model because the third part is really
important which is a lot of people just
created content for the ego of knowing
that other people were were doing the
you know the old adage is there only two
reasons why people create content to get
rich or to get famous a lot of people
are just doing it to get famous and and
that's a lot of what drove I mean that's
what drives Wikipedia that's what drives
a lot of content creation that is on the
web I think that the web is shifting now
to a new interface. It's shifting away
from search and it's shifting to AI. And
we can see that through uh the trends in
terms of Google usage. We can see that
in terms of like our own usage um where
more and more people are turning to
these AI systems where they used to turn
to Google. Even Google itself is sort of
morphing into an AI company kind of in
their in their interface before our
eyes. And as we do that, the natural
thing that's going to happen is we're
going to consume derivatives rather than
consuming the original content itself.
Um study that just came out uh from from
Pew Research that says that is if Google
puts an AI overview on the top of
search, it is much less likely that
people click on the links. And that
seems sort of like a duh. Um but the the
data that we have also substantiates
that and shows that um compared with 10
years ago it's become 10 times harder
for the same piece of content to get a
click from Google than it was before.
And that's because the answer box that's
because of AI overviews. That's because
of the the search uh interfaces has gone
there. And that's the good news for
content creators. In the case of someone
like OpenAI, it's um it's 750 times
harder than it was with the Google of
old. With the case of Anthropic, it's
30,000 times harder than the content of
old. And so what I worry about is that
if the value creation model of the web
has been all about how do I get traffic,
the new interface of the web isn't going
to send you traffic. And if that's the
case, if content creators can't get
value from selling a thing or a
subscription, selling ads, or just the
ego that they get knowing someone is
reading their stuff, I worry that people
aren't going to create content. And
that's going to really not only starve
the web, but it's actually going to
starve even the AI companies that are
using that content as effectively the
fuel for their engines.
>> How do you think that evolves? Because
if you look forward, the other thing
that people are talking about a lot
right now is agents and the fact that
you're not only getting information
through an AI, it'll actually go into
actions on your behalf. So the time you
actually spend on the web is going to go
down effectively or at least you're
going to be dealing with one interface
which is this agent that goes off and
does thing in the background for you. So
do you think that ultimately the eye
companies will start paying for content?
Do you think there'll be other ways to
monetize it? Do you think it's a
completely different model starts to
emerge in terms of how the web works?
>> There are going to be different
solutions for different pieces of of the
equation at some level. agent kind of
commerce is going to be probably the
easiest of these to solve where there
are going to be certain companies that
say what listen we'd love your agent to
come and you know buy a widget from us.
There going to be others that right now
are aggregators of information that that
the agents can actually disintermediate
or disagregate that content and they'll
be actually quite threatened by that.
But ultimately I think commerce agents
and AI is probably ultimately pretty
good. separate commerce from content and
content is what you're worried about.
>> Content is a is a different piece where
content the problem right now is the
default assumption has been that you get
content for free. And it's actually
interesting a lot of the content
creators are looking to the law as the
solution to this. And generally I'm I'm
a recovering uh law professor, so you
know, pardon me for going down this
weird tangent, but it's actually, I
think, really interesting, which is um
in copyright law, the more that you are
a derivative as opposed to a direct
copy, the actually the safer you are,
the more likely you are to fall under
fair use. And we've actually seen a
number of court cases um two that
happened here in California uh that
happened within a week of each other.
One of which basically said AI uses of
content is is fair use. The other one
which said it it wasn't. There's going
to be a whole bunch of things around
that. But the probably the more sensible
one is the more that you're creating
derivative content, the less likely it
is to be a copyright violation. But kind
of opposite of that, the more that
you're creating derivative content, the
more likely it is that someone isn't
going to go back to that original
source. And so I actually worry that a
lot of the content creators are focused
very much on what the law says today and
on copyright law, which may not come out
in their in their favor because it is it
is actually protecting those derivative
uses. I think what we have to figure out
is probably a different business model
where content creators get compensated.
And I think the good news is as you talk
to the big AI companies and you know 80%
of the major AI companies are cloudflare
customers. So we have good relationship
about we talk to them about that all the
time. What they all say is you're
absolutely right. We should be paying
for content. The the devil is in the
details though because what they all are
desperately worried about is how do you
make sure that it's a level playing
field. They all believe their technology
is the best. They all believe that on a
level playing field they're going to
win. But they're really worried well if
Google still gets content for free but
we have to pay for it that doesn't seem
fair. or if I'm paying for it but
somebody else gets it for free that
doesn't seem fair. So what we've been
really working on is how can we create
that really level playing field and we
think if that's the case that AI
companies will actually be quite willing
to pay for that content.
>> What are the approaches you've been
taking to try and level the playing
field here?
>> So in order to have an economy you have
to have a market. In order to have a
market you have to have scarcity. Like
no markets exist without some level of
scarcity. And the problem right now with
content is that content there is no
scarcity. They're giving it away for
free. And so we spent the last year
working not across only across CLR's
existing customers but then going across
the entire publisher ecosystem writ
large not just print publishers but
video audio music you know across you
know film across the entire spectrum and
saying you know we think that there's a
problem with AI that it's starting to
actually take value and not give you
anything back and across the board for
every publisher from the Associated
Press to Ze Davis and everything in
between we've seen just incredible
resonance with that message where
they're all saying, "You're absolutely
right. Our business is getting
astronomically harder over just the last
6 months and we're seeing less and less
of our existing business model working.
So, we need to do something about that."
And so, what we did on July 1st was we
announced what we called the uh content
independence day where you could
actually have independence from these AI
companies. and we for free across all of
our customers whether they paid us or
they didn't pay us we started blocking
by default any training that was being
done by any AI companies that was there
and it was really important that we
focused on that because that meant that
we could treat Google the same as
everyone else um now what we're doing is
we're working with the IETF and other
standards organizations to say let's
define how you have to announce how your
what your crawler is doing as it as it
behaves online and we're really
encouraged by the early work that's
there. As that happens, we think we'll
be able to set in place um really fine
grain permissions for content creators
or anyone else to say here, you know,
humans can get my content for free, but
robots have to pay for it. And then and
then figure that out. That first step of
creating scarcity is what you have to do
in order to figure out what the market
is. And then after that, I think
figuring out the market, that's going to
be what takes, you know, some time. And
I think we're still experimenting with
different
>> super interesting because if you look in
the the sort of search precedent, we had
a robots.ext text file and that's where
you kind of specify whether a search
engine could come and crawl the content
and it sounds like you're really
extending some of those concepts on
through to the AI layer.
>> Yeah, that's that's right and I think
you know robots.ext was a relatively
simplistic and blunt tool where today um
you know it basically says you can
either allow something or disallow
something and you can you can basically
do it either you know you can do it on a
directory on on your site or or to the
entire site. Um, but but there's not
that sort of fine grain control. And so
we think robots of Texas is is sort of
like the the street signs that are that
are on the on the road. A lot of people
don't necessarily follow the speed
limit, though. And we actually see
plenty of examples. In fact, some really
prominent companies that do some very
very very shady things where they
basically say absolutely we follow the
rules of the road. when push comes to
SEV, if it turns out they're blocked,
then all of a sudden they're doing a
bunch of things that look not dissimilar
to what we see Russian hackers or
Iranian hackers do in order to try and
get around those blocks. At Cloudflare,
we're really good at at identifying that
and stopping it. And we're also really
good at embarrassing those companies
that do that. So, you know, watch our
blog and I have a feeling that some
prominent um AI companies that are
misbehaving are going to get called out
pretty soon. What do you think that um
you know should the idea of a
marketplace for like contributing to
training work out? Um what do you think
that does to the landscape of like the
types of content companies that win or
lose? Like I can't imagine it's going to
look like it does today because there's
there's some notion of like
incrementality.
>> I mean this is this is going to take us
down a little bit of a tangent, but I
think a lot of the things that are wrong
with the world today are ultimately
Google's fault. They're not the worst
actor.
>> I'm glad we started with we're all
friends here and then it's all Google's
fault.
>> It's all Google's fault.
>> I think Google has been a a net force
for good in the world. I think that they
actually believe in ecosystems. I think
they're trying to do the right thing.
But they taught everyone to worship if
they're content creators sort of a deity
which is traffic, right? And that was
the proxy for value. It was how do you
generate the most traffic?
>> And that led to Facebook as the next
iteration. It led to Tik Tok. led to
folks like the Huffington Post, which
would literally write a piece of content
and then AB test headlines trying to
figure out which one generated the
largest cortisol response to get the
most clicks.
>> Or if you guys remember Demand Media,
>> Demand Media, I mean, Buzzfeed, I mean,
there's a whole bunch of folks that were
just trying to figure out how do we
actually stimulate rage and get people
stirred up so they'll click on the thing
so that I can either sell them a
subscription or sell ads against against
a piece of content. And again, I think
that that led to a lot of me tooism.
That led to a lot of people writing the
same story with sort of a slightly
different bend. I don't think it led to
a lot of us actually figuring out how to
advance human knowledge. And so what I
think is interesting is if you if you
think about the AI companies on mass,
they're a relatively good approximation
for the sum of human knowledge. Not
perfect, but probably the best we've
ever had, right? where they come
together and and the reality is that
they are in in aggregate they're like a
giant block of Swiss cheese where yeah
there's a whole bunch of cheese there
but there are holes in the cheese as
well and their very algorithms as they
as they come across a piece of content
they prune off that content which is
already kind of part of the meaty part
of the cheese whereas the parts that are
in holes are actually super valuable to
them and so I actually think that if we
could create a market where you're
rewarding content creators not for who
stimulates the most cortisol,
>> but who fills in the holes in the cheese
and you actually pay people for that.
That that is a better outcome and that's
actually advancing human knowledge and
and that's really amazing if we can
>> isn't that kind of arguably companies
like Merkore or Serge or Scale as as
they do data labeling and they hire
human experts to basically fill out
content areas for AI companies. So, do
you basically view this as like a
distributed model of that or sort of a
web-based?
>> I've spent the last year talking to a
lot of a lot of people. One of the more
interesting conversations um that I had
um was was with Daniel. I flipped to
Stockholm and and saw saw Daniel. And I
think there's really nobody who has
compensated content creators at scale
like Daniel has. And it's it's amazing.
The day before iTunes launched, the
music industry was about an 8 to9
billion dollar uh industry. Spotify on
its own today pays out over $10 billion
a year to the music industry. And so
done right, these can be very much pie
expanding. You know, there's there's
plenty of cheese to go around if if we
if we if we do this if we do this
correctly. And the thing I remember he
was telling me a story um which which I
thought was was was sort of in the same
vein which was Spotify actually looks at
queries that people have run that they
don't have good answers for where
there's you know somebody searches for I
don't know I want a disco song about
like how fun it is to dance with your
dog right I don't know and if somebody
searches for that and it doesn't get it
they actually publish that list back to
content creators and musicians and there
several musicians that are making
literally tens of millions of dollars a
year just writing songs for what people
care about listening to unmet demand
that are unmet demand. And so I I I
think that it's not exactly the same as
data labeling. I think it's actually
saying like for the first time in human
history, we can actually very accurately
identify where there are holes as the
very nature of the pruning algorithms
that these LLM models are trained on.
and that we could then if we sort of
basically resurface that and say hey
this is a we don't have enough articles
about you know the wingtoad ferret that
that people will actually go out and do
that and that that if we can then
compensate people on that that actually
is much better than yet another article
about what's happening in Washington DC
yet another article about you know how
much San Francisco is on decline or on
the rise or I mean that again that
that's not actually adding to to human
knowledge that's just you know rage bait
effectively How do you think that plays
out as um so if you look at some of
these um labeling companies that also
then hire experts in to sort of provide
some of the at least expert content that
you mentioned um if you look at some of
the models like MedPal 2 from Google
which is a couple years old now it
outperformed human physicians the
average human physician in terms of
output so if you rated its output
against people at what point do you
think we've run out of good content from
people in other words there there is
some limit
>> I don't think that's true I mean I do
think that there there will be some
like there's always going to be people
running new experiments and new tests
and finding new things and and new
discoveries. And yeah, maybe we can
imagine some distant future where it's
all robots that are that are doing this
in in in the labs, but that's that's a
long ways off.
>> And so in in the meantime, you know, I
think we can do that. My my Black Mirror
kind of version of the future though is
is actually one where we're not going to
get rid of journalists. We're not going
to get rid of scientists. We're not
going to get rid of researchers. you're
going to still need that work. What I
worry about is if we don't figure out
how to compensate broadly content
creators who are independent that we
actually go back to almost a time in the
metaches where the web had historically
been this incredible sort of um
distributor of value creation and and
knowledge creation. You could imagine a
world in which all of a sudden you have
five big AI companies. You have the
conservative one and you have the
liberal one. You have the European one
and the Chinese one and and they all
actually hire and run their own team of
journalists, researchers, academics, the
experts that fill in the ch the sort of
holes in their cheese. And and again,
that's not too hard to imagine that in
some notsodistant future that becomes a
thing. What I hope is that we figure out
a way to compensate independent content
creators and share that knowledge across
all of them as opposed to creating these
silos of knowledge behind each, you
know, variation of of uh of an LLM.
>> Do you feel like the large labs agree
with you on how much can be paid out to
creators to fill those holes? Because
you know you look at the scale of ad
revenue you know I mean even ignoring
things like commerce and whatever from
the open web but you know in aggregate
like what's been paid to labeling
companies like $10 billion less we're
like really far off if people are
starting with a very large free free
today base. Well, again, I'm not sure
labeling companies is the right I mean,
is is labeling companies the right the
right model or is it, you know, GPU
spend or is it is it is it employee
spend? You know, I actually think, you
know, first of all, the amount that's
paid to labeling companies will go up.
Um, the amount that's paid to employees
and then and then GPUs is is continuing
to go up. And so, the question is how
much value is content actually giving
you? And and the answer is, you know,
somewhere between zero and 100%. Right.
And is it more or less than another unit
of GPU time? I mean, there's a market
that can that can figure that out.
>> From that first principles view, I see
it.
>> Yeah. And so you so you've got so there
is some value which is there. I think
the mistake that a lot of content
creators did was they actually did deals
that don't scale as the as the business
models of the AI companies scale with
them. So, if you do a deal that's like
$20 million and you get all my content,
I mean, that's a incredibly naive deal,
right? It might seem like a great deal
to the content providers day one, but
it's exactly the opposite of what you
want to do. What you really want to do
is say, "Okay, you know, if you imagine
that there were a way to for all of the
content that is available, you say,
here's how much that is creating value,
that's going to be some percentage of
whatever the subscription fee is for
your AI model or if you're an ad
supported AI in the future, it's going
to be some some percentage of that. And
then as the AI companies grow then then
and which will inherently then mean the
ad revenue shrinks that you share in
that upside as your um downside gets
gets diluted. And that that I I think
that that's you know there's still going
to be advertising out there. There's
still going to be subscriptions. There's
still going to be tentpull content that
people just have to consume even if
they're AIS. But what you also want to
do is allow that content to get into the
AI systems and and the content creator
should get compensated for that. And
again, a market will deter if there's
scarcity, a market's going to determine
how how valuable that actually is.
>> One of the things that CloudFare is
known for to your point is really
speeding up web pages in the internet.
And as we shift from uh serving pages to
sort of models being run, you're kind of
shifting from a world of like caching
and serving pages to like inference. How
do you think about that in the context
of cloudfare or some of the directions
that you all are going?
>> Well, I mean, I think we we leaned in
heavily and no, nobody remembers this,
but back in 2020, we partnered with
this, you know, graphics chip company in
order to put uh GPUs at the edge of our
network in order to allow people to do
inference. And by the way, it was
crickets like launch this product.
>> No one responded. It wasn't a single
like sales inquiry uh to use it. And so
we apologized to the partner who
happened to be Nvidia and uh and kind of
went on our way. Now four years later
the market was ready for it. We we
basically just took out the same press
release and issued it again and then you
know it's taken off like gang busters. I
think that we've leaned in heavily to
you know we believe that a lot of
inference is going to happen on your end
device but there will always be some
model which is too big or too resource
intensive and in that case the next best
place to run it is going to be on at the
inside the network at the edge and
that's that's what we're we're
delivering more importantly I think that
if you look at whether it's MCP or
whatever the next protocol that connects
agents to you know services and and
allows these these things to connect.
Inherently, because of how much of the
internet we sit in front of, they have
to pass through us. And so, we're
investing heavily behind those
protocols, making sure that they have
all of the security, uh, the the
underlying rails and payments
infrastructure and everything else that
you need. And my hunch is that what we
solve in the content space and the rails
that we create for the payments there
very naturally then become one of the
models uh to to do sort of agent to
agent over MCP or whatever the final
protocol becomes payment infrastructure
to be able to um to handle that as well.
So Cloudflare fundamentally is a
network. Um and I remember you know when
cryptocurrency and bit blockchains
everything were getting big people are
like what are you you know don't aren't
you worried about this and I'm like they
still need a network you know as AI gets
big like still needs a network and so I
think we sit in the center of this and
as you especially have more agentto
agent communication um I think the
network actually becomes more and more
important. Is there a bet you're making
on like what changes in terms of models
or you know compound systems that like
drive more model traffic to the
architecture you describe where it's in
network versus you know in large data
center today.
>> Well I wish I would could say we were
that strategic. I mean I think we we go
we we we go to wherever the market
demands that we go and so
>> including build a neocloud.
>> I don't even know what a neocloud is but
sure.
So, so I think we're we're fundamentally
um you know always just trying to say
how do we respond to whatever either our
own team needs as customer zero or what
our customers need and the fact that
again 80% of the AI companies are using
us they are um constantly pushing us to
can you do this can you do that and and
I think our team is has been uniquely
good at being able to execute and
innovate and stay at least you know up
with whatever the trends are and that's
again I think I'm proud of the fact that
we have ended up in a lot of these these
conversations and that so much of the
internet you know does flow through us
that you know one way or another I think
that we end up being in the center of a
lot of these transactions.
>> Does that imply any particular belief
around like open or closed models as you
know people continue to develop
capabilities.
>> You know we have closed models that run
on us. Um we have a lot more open models
that run on us. Um I I tend to um we we
have historically been a a company that
believes very much in open source and we
most of the things that we build
internally um as long as as long as we
can we try to open source all of that
technology and so I I tend to be in the
pro open models um you know we work very
closely with the meta team and llama and
and everything that they're they're
doing but again I think there's going to
be different different flavors of of
this and and I you know And I I'm we're
we're happy to have customers in either
end of of that that spectrum. I'm I'm a
little bit skep I'm actually quite
skeptical of the if we allow open source
models the world is going to end
arguments. That seems histrionic to me.
there are things we should worry about
like it is you know I think some of the
um you know uh synthetic pathogens and
other things that can be created but it
seems to me like the the place to
regulate that and control that is in the
machine that can actually print the
pathogens not in the AI model that can
come up with with uh with with what it
is that that seems like a a a pretty
flimsy argument for why we shouldn't
have open source
>> what needs to happen for your view sorry
I'm I'm still going back to um like
shape of the web um what needs to happen
for your view of like a marketplace for
content to emerge, right? Like what are
the next signs that this is actually
like happening?
>> Well, I think the the very tactical next
step is we've got to get Google to not
be a special snowflake because Google
has had such a dominant position in
search. Um they almost believe that it
is their right to have access to content
without having to pay for it. And so the
conversation that we have with them is
we get it. The deal that you made with
content creators in the past was they
give you their content and you send them
a certain amount of traffic. You over
time have taken just as much of their
content but you've sent them onetenth of
the traffic that they have. And if we
just plot those trends out going
forward, it's going to become, you know,
a a smaller and smaller put. At some
point the content creators will say
we're just going to block Google right
now. That seems un that was unthinkable
10 years ago. It seems radical 6 months
ago. It is what people are talking about
today. Why Google is so important is
when you talk to all of the other AI
companies, Google is the one company
that they're the most afraid of. And
that the reason that they're most afraid
of them is because they think that they
have privileged access to content in a
way that is much more difficult for them
to do. And so what I think we have to be
able to do first of all is to to say to
Google, listen, you can do still do
search indexing. But if your bot is
taking content and then transforming it
in some way, making it into the answer
box, making into AI overviews, turning
it into Gemini, that's different action.
That's a different deal. And you have to
be in the same bucket as everyone else.
And Google's going to resist that. Now,
I think the good news is they really do
believe in the ecosystem. I think they
are trying to do the right thing uh
that's out there and you know maybe not
this is the good news for Google but
it's the good news I think for the web
which is that they have a ton of both
regulatory and legal and legislative
pressure which is coming down on them.
So one way or another I think we will
flatten that out. Once that happens I
think that's when we can actually start
to say we're going to shut off access to
content unless you pay for it. In the
beginning, most of the deals that are
done, the actual money being changed
will be between large content producers
and large AI companies. That's happening
right now where condandy Nast or dot
dash Meredith or the New York Times or
Reddit is doing a direct deal with a
large model company. That'll happen uh a
bunch. Where I think we can play a role
is when you have either a large content
provider trying to make a deal with all
of the AI startups that are out there,
which they really do want to do and they
want to do it in a way that scales, but
they can't do one-off deals in those
cases. Or you have the long tale of
content with all of the different AI
companies. In both of those cases, I
think Cloudflare can play a role in
helping set what are sort of basic rates
that are there. And how that model
looks, you know, I'm not sure. It might
be that we negotiate basically on behalf
of a number of the content providers
with all of the different AI companies
basically a pool of capital much like
how Spotify does and then distribute
that out. It might be microp payments
every time you access a piece of
content. It might be that training is
actually a different payment rate than
search. That's I think something that
we'll have to figure out. But step one
is we've got to get Google to play by
the same rules that every startup, every
new every, you know, other company is
playing by. And the minute we do that, I
think the rest of the marketplace will
actually happen a lot faster than you
think
>> for uh any content company or individual
providers since you know that used to be
a big part of the web uh that cannot
predict today like there's no business
model for them today to make money off
of content going into these AI
experiences. Yep.
>> And they can't it's not easy to predict
what is incremental to models. What
advice would you have for them? So, I
think the first thing is you've got to
you've you've got to get back to
controlling your content. So, you have
to create scarcity uh from the
beginning. So, how do you make sure that
you're not just giving your content away
for free? And again, we've made that
easy. There are other companies uh that
are working to try and make that easy um
as well. And so, one way or another
create scarcity and then start to have
conversations. You can see which AI
companies are the most likely uh to to
deal with it. So we're just today there
was news that Google is starting a pilot
project to start to pay news providers,
something they swore they would never
do. Um but again I think that they can
see and because they do believe in the
ecosystem, they can see that this has to
happen if the incentives for creating
content go away if you can no longer
sell something, if you can no longer
sell ads against something, if you can
no longer even get the ego hit. Because
if people aren't going to the original
source, you don't even know if you write
some incredibly influential piece that
ends up in, you know, millions of AI
responses, you don't actually ever even
know that happened. You're you're
yelling into the void. We've got to
figure something out around that uh
around that piece. So, I think the first
step for content creators is recognize
that you have a that the business model
of the web is changing. Second,
recognize there is something you can do
about it, right? You can actually create
this scarcity. And then third, actually
participate, start to go out and say
based on the data, hey, you keep trying
to call crawl my stuff. Like let's
figure out a way that we can have some
fair exchange of value for that.
>> One other thing that you mentioned sort
of um a little bit as a side note when
we were talking earlier was around how
you felt that a lot of the models would
actually be running on device
>> and running locally and then obviously
there'd be things on the edge or in the
cloud that would be the bigger models
perhaps doing um more complex tasks.
When do you think that'll happen? Do you
think that's based on when the device is
advanced in certain ways? Is it model
size? Is it something else?
>> Well, I think a lot of it's happening um
today um you know on your phone um
there's a lot of that your phone is
doing locally without it having to to go
out and and there there are certain
places certain applications where it has
to be local. If if you have a driverless
car and there's a red ball bouncing
through a yard with a little, you know,
girl running after it, whether to hit
the brakes or not can't be dependent on
network conditions, right? So that has
to run uh locally. I think that the big
place where you know I I there where I
think there's going to be exciting
innovation that does not feel like it it
will be today is really in just how do
you take especially on the inference
side making it significantly more power
efficient. That ends up being the
biggest limiting factor. Um Apple has
has shown that it's possible and that
you can actually have relatively power
efficient GPUs and TPUs that are out
there. When we talk with the folks at
Nvidia, feels a little bit like talking
to Intel back, you know, in our case in
2010 or Apple's case in 2005 where they
were like, you're doing it wrong if you
care about power efficiency. I I
remember sitting in um out in Intel's
research lab outside of of Portland in
2011 um with all and we were a tiny
little startup and and but we were doing
interesting innovative things and so
then we were using their chips and so
they brought it brought me in and I was
like the only thing we care about is
cores per watt
>> and we just need as many cores per watt
as you can possibly deliver and they
just kept saying you're doing it wrong
you should be water cooling your systems
doing these things and we kept trying to
explain like we don't have that luxury.
We have to go into what are often times
the oldest most legacy data centers in
the world where there is a relatively
limited power envelope and we've got to
fit within that.
>> I think the same thing is going to
happen in the AI space and I'm very
hopeful. Nvidia has been a terrific
partner to us, but it's been sometimes
frustrating to see how, you know, more
more uh GPU capacity comes along with,
you know, having to stand up your own
mothball nuclear power facility. Like
that can't be the solution and there's
no physics reason why it needs to be.
And so I think that we're actively
looking around around the ecosystem
trying to figure out who can deliver the
most, you know, tensor units per watt or
what whatever whatever the the sort of
GPU equivalent is. and and that I think
is is going to be the big unlock that
allows you to have more running on your
device whe whether that's your phone or
your driverless car or frankly at the
edge of the network because again we we
we also have to live within a power
envelope which is not the same as if we
were you know standing up a you know 100
megawatt um data center. Yeah, I was
kind of thinking of it I guess from two
or three perspectives. I mean to your
point there's the actual chips and in
the context of mobile obviously there
was ARM and then Qualcomm as other
approaches to basically get to some of
the things that you're mentioning for
devices. Separate from that there's
actual model size.
>> Yeah.
>> And inference time and a few other
things that are kind of overlapping but
different.
>> Yeah.
>> And so to some extent it's how large of
a model that's how performant can you
actually load on a device and when does
that happen and how well can can it run?
And so I was just a little bit curious
how you thought about all those
different pieces because there's also
the model component side of that that
seems to matter quite a bit and it's all
coming. I mean it's all inevitable. I'm
just sort of wondering about
>> I I think that um we are still most of
the AI companies are still um relatively
inefficient in terms of their
utilization from from everything that we
can see. And so when we um you know it
is in our interest based on just how our
business model works and everything else
to make inference to make anything we do
as efficient as possible because we only
charge customers based on the actual
work that we do. We we we're not we're
different than hyperscalers. Like the
hyperscalers you go out and you rent uh
a GPU.
>> They don't care if you use it or you
don't use it. There's no incentive
actually for them to make. In fact, if
tomorrow someone announced that they had
made inference 100 times more efficient,
that's great news for us. It's terrible
news for the hyperscalers because
because our business models are are very
different. Um I think that the great
lesson of deepseek I wish I just wish
that it had been a group of students out
of like Hungary that had designed it,
not out of China, because there were
some really significant innovative steps
that they took to make um essentially
training and inference significantly
more more efficient. We all got
distracted in the US by the fact that it
was China and you know was it real or
not real or anything else. It was real.
There was really great science that was
done there to be more efficient. I think
we've just barely scratched the surface
on what we can do around model
compression, what we can do around
really just, you know, much more
efficient pruning. There's there's a ton
in these models that are branches of the
tree that just literally there's the the
probabilities of going down it are so
incredibly low that you can prune those
branches off fairly efficiently um and
still get incredible performance. So I I
think we have an enormous amount of the
kind of hardcore computer science which
is different than kind of the hardcore
AI science to do to just say how can we
now take these things and make them
massively more efficient. And my hunch
is that, you know, it is not
particularly long before you're running
something which is the equivalent of
kind of the current generation of chat
GPT on your iPhone or your or at your
Android device.
>> Does that um advancement uh happen at
the model providers in open source at an
infrastructure provider?
>> I mean I it's hard to predict where it
is. I mean I know that that's like we're
not investing in how we build a frontier
model. That's not that's not our job. We
are investing on how we take any models
that that we're running and and run them
significantly more efficiently. So
that's that's how we think about it. I
think I think the question is who's
going to be the VMware of AI, right? And
who's going to create kind of that
ability to just because we haven't even
done that basic work like today for the
most part. if you want to, you know,
spin up a uh a a GPU, you're taking an
entire, you know, VM. There's not even a
container because you've got to get that
low level or you're taking an entire
machine that is is running. And that's
extremely expensive. And in most cases
with most of the hyperscalers, you
actually have to to get anything close
to attractive pricing, you have to
commit to a year of of that. And now
it's up to you as the customer to figure
out all that efficiency. someone will
come along and figure out a way to say,
"Here's how we can slice these things
up. Here's how we can make them more
efficient, and we're just going to
speedrun essentially the CPU efficiency
gains, including a lot of the security
things like the um Spectre and and other
attacks, the speculative attacks that
that you had in in CPUs will come to
GPUs. That all that stuff is coming.
We're going to speedrun the last 30
years of CPU efficiency gains in in the
next, you know, 5 to 10 in in GPUs." I
think fundamentally there's a lot of
really interesting nextgen models around
physics and materials and a few things
that may actually be interesting.
Obviously a few really odd uh future
looking things on the infrastructure
side that I think will be important.
You've probably been following a lot of
the sort of um agentic related
infrastructure that actually is
necessary for multi-step agents. So I
think there'll be a few big companies
there and then there's all the
>> vertical app things. So
>> we will probably compete in that agentic
infrastructure space. Um it will
probably not be one provider. it will be
something where you're going to have to
have a whole bunch that actually work
together in some way and so figuring out
the standards behind that I think is
going to be important and it's you know
I think that the whether it's MCP or you
know Google did their own flavor of it
which was which was sort of just like it
felt very Microsofty kind of embrace and
extend um but but that all of that space
is going to be
>> sort of like temporal langraph all those
things are kind of early indicators of
like new agentic infrastructure that's
coming
>> that's right yeah
>> I think there are like an entire very
large domains um where a lot of the
architectures probably apply and like
the data collection like efficient data
collection is the question because like
we're not going to get robots from
common crawl
>> but we're like probably going to get
them. We just have to figure out how to
pay for the data. Um and and so I think
figuring out if there are interesting
models to get to generalization in these
other domains is just like something I'm
looking at.
>> Yeah. The other thing that's going to be
really interesting is I was I was
actually kind of a pretty much a a a
skeptic around like the blockchain
cryptocurrency. It it may be that this
shift is the is the thing cuz now we're
looking at this and we're thinking okay
okay let's say we got to a place where
it was actually micro payments for every
page view. I mean we do
>> something 15 trillion requests every
day. Um
>> it's an obvious use case. Yeah. And but
h but how you then scale these things to
be able to to work that way. I mean you
can't do that with Bitcoin, right? There
there's and you can't even do that with
Salana or other things. I think it's
going to be interesting how how all of
these things that sort of that have
developed over the last 10 years, how
they kind of come back together in
interesting ways to to invent whatever
that next future uh is is.
>> Super interesting. Yeah. I think a lot
of people also talked about um agentic
permissioning and identity.
>> That's right. part of that too like how
do you actually embed identity on the
blockchain
>> and also I mean the whole question of
identity is going to be really really
interesting because there are times
where I might want you the human to be
there and be okay with that there might
be times where I'm willing to be you are
my the agent connected with the human to
be there and then there might be times
I'm willing to let some sort of agent
that is
>> self-directed be there and setting up
kind of the differences in those those
permissions is going to is going to be
really interesting. browsers another
place I mean everybody is building a
browser right now and and that's an
interesting question for us like how
much do we lean into supporting that
versus how much do we say okay that's
actually just a way of leaking leaking
data that's back out and so I think
getting to some sort of way of saying
>> here's who I am
>> um as an agent a bot a browser um here
is what I have agreed I will do with
whatever it is that I'm taking from you
and and you know cryptographically
signed like I have I I agree to these
things. Um I I think that that's it it's
it'll probably be the same fundamental
infrastructure that regulates how bots
access the web that ends up regulating
how browsers access the web and and a
browser that takes data and then
immediately feeds it back to an LLM
might have more restricted access than
one that doesn't. and and that's going
to be an interesting, you know, market
there.
>> So, that's super interesting. Yeah. And
I guess to the identity side, um ZK is a
very natural way to actually do a lot of
really interesting prove you have the
right to a credential but not show the
credential, do other things that are
complicated. And so, the blockchain's
perfect for that.
>> It feels like all the building blocks
for this have been coming for quite some
time. And it wasn't until fairly
recently where it felt like, oh, that
starts to be the shape of how these
blocks come together. But it it feels
like both from kind of the need of the
change of the business model and through
the fact that the technologies have
matured to the point that you know
they're starting to be able to handle
you know these volumes and and and have
the broad adoption to to actually take
off again the sort of all the work of
the last 10 years that
>> you know if you'd asked me even six
months ago how is this all going to come
together in in the last in the last few
months it's felt like oh now you can
start to see the shape of what this this
future might look like.
>> I think that's what we have time for.
Thanks, Matthew.
>> Thank you so much for joining us. Thanks
for having me.
>> Find us on Twitter at No Priors Pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way, you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-priers.com.
[Music]